---
title: 学术写作常用句式和词汇总结
date: '2021/5/11  10:27:00'
tags: 学术写作
mathjax: true
abbrlink: f2f16e41
---

借鉴各路公众号以及自己总结的常用句式和词汇进行阶段性总结和归纳，后续如有更新，还会继续补充。

<!-- more -->


## **Introduction**

做某事是有意义：It is of tremendous significance to do sth./It is nontrivial to do sth.

被用来处理某问题：：be usually exploited to/be utilized to/be employed to/

解决某某问题： handle the xxx problem/address the xxx issue.

**揭示/阐明某某的影响**: Disclose/shed light on the influence/effect on xxx/ the performance of xxx.

**专注于**：endeavor to do sth./pay attention to sth./dedicate the research attention to sth.

**值得注意的是**: It is worth noting that in almost all of the aforementioned literature.

文献对比：Compared with the case xxx, xxx and xxx, remain at an infant stage and thus require xxx.

某某被提出： xxx has been put forward/presented/studied/

**所提的方法**: the proposed/suggested/presented approach/method/algorithm



在xx框架下: In the framework of xxx.

这是…的主要原因： which is the main reason why xxx.

受…的启发：inspired by xx, xx.

最近：very recently

联合/组合：combined with

由…引起的：xxx-induced (与名词连用构成形容词)/ changes induced by xx.

管理：govern

一般来说: Generally speaking, xx.

众所周知，It is well-known that xx.

被视为：be regard as/considered as



**副词修饰**：

Essentially 本质上

Effectively 有效地/有力地

Profoundly 深刻地

“Notably,….”；“Importantly, ….”；“Furthermore….”；“Moreover….”

## Methods

**段落中逻辑关系**: xxx for the first time. Then, xx. Subsequently/Afterwards, xx. Finally, xxx.

**常见的连接词**：However, also, in addition, consequently, afterwards, moreover, Furthermore, further, although, unlike, in contrast, Similarly, Unfortunately, alternatively, parallel results, In order to, despite, For example, Compared with, other results, thus, therefore……用好连接词能使文章层次清楚，意思明确。比如，叙述有时间顺序的事件或文献，最早的文献可用AA advocated it for the first time.接下来可用Then BB further demonstrated that. 再接下来，可用Afterwards, CC……如果还有，可用More recent studies by DD……



在下文中：In what follows

 在那之前：Before that,

记住： Bearing in mind that 替换 remember

**引出公式的连接词**：it follows that, one has, we have, yields, it follows that, it holds that

关于某某的函数： A function with respect to x或者A function of x

Remark发起词：It is worth noting that in almost all of the aforementioned literature.

意味着/暗示：indicate/imply



注意这里后面的词语不需要加the：

The initial time and terminal time are denoted as $t_0$ and $t_f$, respectively.



## 常见替换词

give rise to, lead to, result in, trigger 替换 cause.

desire 替换 want.

There are several reasons behind sth 替换…reasons for sth.

beneficial, rewarding 替换 helpful.

hardly necessary, hardly inevitable…替换 unnecessary, avoidable.

feasible 替换 possible.

distinguished 替换 famous.



## 常用句式摘录

### **很多文献已经讨论过**

在Introduction里面经常会使用到的一个句子，它的可能的说法有很多很多，如"has been investigated/designed/proposed/employed……"

A. Solar energy conversion by photo electrochemical cells **has been intensively investigated.** (Nature 1991, 353, 737 - 740 )

B. **Much work so far has focused on** wide band gap semiconductors for water splitting for the sake of chemical stability.（DOI:10.1038/NMAT3151）

C. **Recent developments of** Lewis acids and water-soluble organometallic catalysts **have attracted much attention.**（Chem. Rev. 2002, 102, 3641−3666）

D. **Considerable research efforts/attention have been devoted/paid/dedicated to** the direct transition metal-catalyzed conversion of aryl halides toaryl nitriles. (J. Org. Chem. 2000, 65, 7984-7989)

E. In [7], a dynamic event-triggered consensus protocol **has been investigated** for the leader-following multiagent systems. In [27], a dynamic event-triggered control strategy **has been designed** for the nonlinear stochastic systems. In [13], a dynamic event-based filter problem **has been studied** for a class of discrete-time linear time-varying systems subject to sector-constraint nonlinearity. ( IEEE trans. cyber. 2019. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2019.2923011)



### **值得注意的是...**

A. **It must also be mentioned that** the recycling of aqueous organic solvent is less desirable than that of pure organic liquid.

B. **Another interesting finding is that** zeolites with 10-membered ring pores showed high selectivities (>99%) to  cyclohexanol, whereas those with 12-membered ring pores, such as  mordenite, produced large amounts of dicyclohexyl ether. (Chem. Rev.  2002, 102, 3641−3666)

C. **It should be pointed out that** the nanometer-scale distribution of electrocatalyst centers on the  electrode surface is also a predominant factor for high ORR  electrocatalytic activity.

D. **Notably**, the Ru II and Rh I complexes possessing the same BINAP chirality form antipodal amino acids as the predominant products. (Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2002, 41: 2008–2022)

E. Given the multitude of various transformations published, **it is noteworthy that** only very few distinct activation methods have been identified. (*Chem. Soc. Rev.*, 2009, **38**, 2178-2189)

F. **It is important to highlight that** these two directing effects will lead to different enantiomers of the  products even if both the “H-bond-catalyst” and the catalyst acting by  steric shielding have the same absolute stereochemistry. (*Chem. Soc. Rev.*, 2009, 38, 2178-2189)

G. **It is worthwhile mentioning that** these PPNDs can be very stable for several months without the observations of any floating or precipitated dots, which is attributed to the  electrostatic repulsions between the positively charge PPNDs resulting  in electrosteric stabilization.(Adv. Mater., 2012, 24: 2037–2041)



### ***如何指出当前研究的不足**

A. Although these inorganic substructures can exhibit a high density of  functional groups, such as bridging OH groups, and the substructures  contribute significantly to the adsorption properties of the material, **surprisingly little attention has been devoted to** the post-synthetic functionalization of the inorganic units within MOFs. (Chem. Eur. J., 2013, 19: 5533–5536.)

B. **In fact it should be noted that** **very little optimisation work has been carried out** on these devices. (Chem. Commun., 2013, **49**, 7893-7895)

C. By far the most architectures have been prepared using a solution  processed perovskite material, **yet a few examples have been reported  that** have used an evaporated perovskite layer. (Adv. Mater., 2014, 27: 1837–1841.)

D. Water balance issues have been effectively addressed in PEMFC  technology through a large body of work encompassing imaging, detailed  water content and water balance measurements, materials optimization and modeling, **but very few of these activities have been undertaken for** anion exchange membrane fuel cells, primarily due to limited materials  availability and device lifetime. (J. Polym. Sci. Part B: Polym. Phys.,  2013, 51: 1727–1735)

E. **In the most existing literature, the researches on** the dynamic ETM-based control problems **have mainly focused on** the continuous-time systems or linear systems. **To the best of our knowledge, very few efforts have been devoted to the investigation** on dynamic event-triggered ADP-based optimal control strategy for nonlinear discrete-time systems, **not to mention** the systems with actuator faults and input saturation.( IEEE trans. cyber. 2019. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2019.2923011)

F. **As far as we are concerned, although fruitful results on** the FTC and input saturation have been extensively studied, **very few results investigate** the fault-tolerant optimal control strategy for the discrete-time nonlinear systems **subjected to** the input saturation constraint. **It is the first purpose of this paper to short such a gap.**( IEEE trans. cyber. 2019. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2019.2923011)

G. **It should be pointed out that** most available results have been based on the state feedback control for single-agent systems, and the corresponding observer-based control problem for MASs **has not yet received adequate investigation**, **not to mention the case when** nonlinear dynamics and constrained control **are both simultaneously taken into consideration**. ( IEEE trans. cyber., 2020,50(8),3719-3780)

H. **This might be the reason why**, despite of the great influence of the preparation on the catalytic activity of gold catalysts, **no systematic study concerning the synthesis conditions has been published yet.** (Applied Catalysis A: General, 2002, 226,  1–13)

I. **In the context of** the optimal control problem, most existing literature **has been concerned** with linear dynamics **only**.( IEEE trans. cyber., 2020,50(8),3719-3780)

G. However, **as far as we concern, few efforts have been made on** the stability analysis of the closed-loop systems where the NNs are implemented for discrete-time multiplayer NNGs. It is, therefore, **the first purpose of this paper to shorten such a gap**. (TNNLS, 2019, 30(8), 2478-2492)

K. It should be noted that **very few results have devoted their efforts to** the near-NE control problems for the discrete-time nonlinear systems subjected to the RRP, **which also formulates the motivations of writing this paper.** (TNNLS, 2019, 30(8), 2478-2492)



### ***...仍然是个挑战**

A. **There is thereby an urgent need but it is still a significant challenge to** rationally design and delicately tail or the electroactive MTMOs for advanced LIBs, ECs, MOBs, and FCs. （Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.2 014, 53, 1488 – 1504）

C.  **It remains challenging to** develop highly active HER catalysts based on materials that are more abundant at lower costs. (J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2011, 133,  7296–7299)

D. **One of the great challenges** in the twenty-first century is unquestionably energy storage. (Nature Materials 2005, 4, 366 - 377 )

E. **Obviously,** the ADP-based event-triggered consensus control problem for nonlinear MASs with input constraints **is a rather challenging research topic with three essential difficulties identified as follows.**( IEEE trans. cyber., 2020,50(8),3719-3780)

F. **Nevertheless, when it comes to** xxx 系统，相应的xxx问题，依然是开放性问题，值得进一步研究。



### **众所周知**

A. **It is well established (accepted) / It is known to all / It is commonly known that** many characteristics of functional materials, such as composition,  crystalline phase, structural and morphological features, and the  sur-/interface properties between the electrode and electrolyte, would  greatly influence the performance of these unique MTMOs in  electrochemical energy storage/conversion applications.（Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.2014,53, 1488 – 1504）

B. **It is generally accepted (believed) that** for a-Fe2O3-based sensors the change in resistance is mainly caused by the  adsorption and desorption of gases on the surface of the sensor  structure. (Adv. Mater. 2005, 17, 582)

C. **As we all know,** soybean abounds with carbon, nitrogen and oxygen elements owing to the existence of sugar, proteins and lipids. (*Chem. Commun.*, 2012, **48**, 9367-9369)

D. **There is no denying that** their presence may mediate spin moments to align parallel without acting alone to show d0-FM. (*Nanoscale*, 2013, **5**, 3918-3930)



### **发现，阐明，报道，证实**

可供选择的词包括：**verify, confirm, elucidate, identify, define, characterize, clarify, establish, ascertain, explain, observe, illuminate, illustrate，demonstrate, show,  indicate, exhibit, presented, reveal, display, manifest，suggest,  propose, estimate, prove, imply, disclose，report, describe，facilitate  the identification of** 

**揭示：**Disclose/shed light on the influence/effect on xxx/ the performance of xxx.

E. In this article, we present data **demonstrating** that opiate and nonopiate analgesia systems can be selectively activated by different  environmental manipulations and **describe** the neural circuitry involved. (Science 1982, 216, 1185-1192)

F. This **suggests** that the cobalt in CoP has a partial positive charge (δ+), while the phosphorus has a partial negative charge (δ−), **implying** a transfer of electron density from Co to P. (Angew. Chem., 2014, 126: 6828–6832)



### **由于/因为...**

A. Liquid ammonia **is particularly attractive as** an alternative to water **due to** its stability in the presence of strong reducing agents such as alkali metals that are used to access lower oxidation states.

B. **The unique nature of** the cyanide ligand **results from** its ability to act both as a σ donor and a π acceptor combined with its negativecharge and ambidentate nature.

C. Qdots are also excellent probes for two-photon confocal microscopy **because** they are characterized by a very large absorption cross section (Science  2005, 307, 538-544).

D. **As a result of** the reductive strategy we used and of the strong bonding between the surface and the aryl groups, low residual currents (similar to those observed at a bare electrode) were obtained over a large window of potentials, the same as for the unmodified parent GC electrode. (J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1992, 114, 5883-5884)

E. The small Tafel slope of the defect-rich MoS2 ultrathin nanosheets is advantageous for practical applications, **since** it will lead to a faster increment of HER rate with increasing overpotential.(Adv. Mater., 2013, 25: 5807–5813)

F. Fluorescent carbon-based materials have drawn increasing attention in recent years **owing to** exceptional advantages such as high optical absorptivity, chemical stability, biocompatibility, and low toxicity.(Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2013, 52: 3953–3957)

G. **On the basis of** measurements of the heat of immersion of water on zeolites, Tsutsumi etal. claimed  that the surface consists of siloxane bondings and is hydrophobicin the  region of low Al content. (Chem. Rev. 2002, 102, 3641−3666)

H. Nanoparticle spatial distributions might have a large significance for catalyst stability, **given that** metal particle growth is a relevant deactivation mechanism for commercial catalysts. 



### **...很重要**

A. The inhibition of additional nucleation during growth, in other words, the complete separation of nucleation and growth, **is critical(essential, important) for** the successful synthesis of monodisperse nanocrystals. (Nature Materials 3, 891 - 895 (2004))

B. In the current study, Cys, homocysteine (Hcy) and glutathione (GSH) were chosen as model thiol compounds since they **play important (significant, vital, critical) roles** in many biological processes and monitoring of these thiol compounds is **of great importance for** diagnosis of diseases.(*Chem. Commun.*, 2012, **48**, 1147-1149)

C. This is because according to nucleation theory, **what really matters** in addition to the change in temperature ΔT (or supersaturation) is the cooling rate.(*Chem. Soc. Rev.*, 2014, **43**, 2013-2026)

D. 做某事是有意义：It is of tremendous significance to do sth.

If the saturation constraints are not taken into account in the controller design procedure, it is possible that the control performance degrades or even the overall stability is depraved [37]. As a result, **it is of tremendous significance to** study the controller design problems with consideration of the actuator saturation phenomenon.( IEEE trans. cyber. 2019. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2019.2923011)



### **相反/不同于**

A. **On the contrary**, mononuclear complexes, called single-ion magnets (SIM), have shown hysteresis loops of butterfly/phonon bottleneck type, with  negligible coercivity, and therefore with much shorter relaxation times  of magnetization. (Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2014, 53: 4413–4417)

B. **In contrast**, the Dy compound has significantly larger value of the  transversal magnetic moment already in the ground state (ca. 10−1 μB), therefore allowing a fast QTM. （Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2014, 53: 4413–4417）

C. **In contrast to t**he structural similarity of these complexes, their magnetic behavior exhibits strong divergence. (Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2014, 53: 4413–4417)

D. **Contrary to** other conducting polymer semiconductors, carbon nitride is chemically and thermally stable and does not rely on complicated device manufacturing. (Nature materials, 2009, 8(1): 76-80.)

E. **Unlike** the spherical particles they are derived from that Rayleigh  light-scatter in the blue, these nanoprisms exhibit scattering in the  red, which could be useful in developing multicolor diagnostic labels on the basis not only of nanoparticle composition and size but also of  shape. (Science 2001, 294, 1901-1903)



### **然而**

**However, nevertheless, nonetheless, on the contrary, in contrast, yet, even so, but**

同样，使用这些词时注意它们的词性，实际上它们也可以灵活运用到句子当中

A. **Nevertheless**, because the Auger time scale is substantially faster than surface trapping in these dots, both types of samples showed similar  gain properties. ( *Science* **2000**,  290,  314-317)

B. The existence of optical gain, **however**, does not guarantee the development of stimulated emission. ( *Science* **2000**,  290,  314-317)

C. **Even so,** the anions may be helping topre-organise 4, or the Hofmeister anion effects may be the only effects. (*Nature Chemistry* **2009**, 1, 403 - 408)



### **为了进一步说明**

A. **To gain more insight,** we conducted several X-ray, NMR, and electrochemical studies. (*Acc. Chem. Res.* **2015**, 48, 2813−2821)

B. **To further confirm that** phosphorylation of AMPA-R in hippocampal slices was catalyzed by CaM-KII,GluR1 was expressed in HEK-293 cells with or  without CaM-KII. (*Science* **1997**, 276, 2042-2045)

C.  **In order to trace this dynamic development**,it is our goal in this  Letter, to describe the changes in the properties of such high  efficiency Cu(In,Ga)Se2 (CIGS) solar cells. (*Phys. Stat. Sol.(RRL)*, **2015**, 9: 28–31.)

D. **To gain/achieve a better understanding of how** the immune system  responds to MPDL3280A, the levels of the IL-18 immunostimulatory  cytokine and IFN-γ,which is stimulated by IL-18, were examined over  several cycles. (*Nature* **2014**, 515, 558–562 )

E. **To  further explore this concept**, we provide an example, where patient A  underwent radical prostatectomy with undetectable postoperative serum  PSA in 2005. (*Nature Reviews Urology* **2017**, 14,193–194)

F. **In order to deeply investigate the aggregation properties** in this range of concentrations, we studied these condary structure of these peptide  derivatives by CD and FTIR spectroscopies.(*Sci Rep.* **2016**, 6:26638.)



## **参考链接**

[1] [知乎—SCI写作常用句式总结一(Introduction篇)](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/74664090)

[2] [SCI论文写作中一些常用的句型总结](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzUxMDMzODg2Ng==&mid=2247523062&idx=1&sn=721f31c4842dea17fa5f9fc58457b1ef&source=41#wechat_redirect)





 

 





 

